Hello, this is Tim Langeman, creator of CiteIt.net -- setting a higher standard of
citation, for news organizations and web
authors.  Often when I read a quotation I
think to myself..  "that's a nice quote but
I wonder what it says two sentences
prior or two sentences later." In other
words, what's the context and how do I
know this quote wasn't cherry-picked?
In Washington DC, the Jefferson Memorial has
a badly cherry-pick quote etched into
the northeastern wall. Here it is --
"Nothing is more certainly written in the
book of fate than that these people are
to be free." That sounds great, but it's
just an excerpt. Using CiteIt.net, I
can link to quote to the full text,
making it possible to click on the blue
down arrow and reveal the quote's next
500 characters . "Nor is it less
certain that the two races, equally free,
cannot live in the same government.
Nature, habit, opinion has drawn indelible
lines of distinction between them.
It is still in our power to direct the
process of emancipation and deportation.
If you look at the text above the quote,
you can see that Jefferson was arguing
that African Americans should work for a
period of time as slaves and then be
deported at a "proper age." Sometimes
added context changes everything.
Given how CiteIt.net exposes cherry-picked quotations,  no news organization or
author attempting to deceive their readers
would use it.  CiteIt.net isn't about
exposing anyone. Rather, it's a tool for
responsible news organizations and
authors who choose to
differentiate themselves by holding
themselves up to a higher standard,
giving readers confidence in their
integrity and a greater understanding of
their sources. Let's now look at a
second example -- this time where the
author is not trying to cherry-pick but
rather to provide their readers with an
easy way to learn more about a quote's
context.  Here's a Bible passage
portraying Jesus's temptation in the
wilderness from Matthew 4.  The tempter
came and said to him:  "If you are the son
of God, command these stones to become
loaves of bread.  But he answered, "it is
written, "One does not live by bread
alone, but by every word that comes from
the mouth of God."
To many Christians, this biblical
passage is familiar, yet few recognize
Jesus's response as a quote from
Deuteronomy 8. If you click on the blue
arrows, you can see I've cited the verse
by linking it to a web version of the
NRSV translation of Deuteronomy at biblegateway.com. Linking this first to an
Internet source allows me to use the
CiteIt.net web service to automatically
pull in the surrounding 500 characters
before and after the quote. This allows
readers to quickly see the section of
Deuteronomy the Jesus was citing
and easily learn more. In conclusion,
CiteIt.net aims to set a higher
standard of citation for news
organizations and web authors. It allows
readers to easily verify the context
and learn more. CiteIt.net dot is free and
licensed under the open-source MIT
license
Idea Inspired by Ted Nelson.
http://ted.hyperland.com